- [Illustrator] In some instances within a job,
an exception may occur.
However, the job should not be failed.
Spring Batch allows for this sort of behavior
through a concept known as skips.
Skips allow permissible exceptions to be ignored
so that jobs can continue their processing.
Let's take a look at how we can configure a step
to incorporate some skip logic.
In order to see skip logic in action,
I've added a little volatility into
our Tracked Order Item Processor.
Let's imagine that the tracking number, that's added
by this processor is received by a third party shipper
that exposes an API.
So here you see we have a call
to the get Tracking Number method.
And let's imagine this is the call to the API.
So you'll see that we can return the Tracking Number
from this method, but roughly 30% of the time,
it's going to throw in Order Processing Exception.
So we've essentially added some volatility here,
so that we can try out the skip logic.
Now in order to incorporate this, let's go over
to the configuration of our job.
And we're going to go to the chunk based step.
Within the chunk based step, we're going to add a call
to the fault Tolerant method
within our steps configuration,
this is going to return a fault tolerance step builder.
And this allows us to incorporate
some resiliency strategies like skips.
So here you'll see the skip method
on the fault tolerant step builder.
And it allows us to specify the type of exception
that we would like to skip.
So anytime this step throws an order processing exception,
we're going to be okay with continuing processing,
and we'll just skip that item.
Now within the configuration of skips,
we're able to specify a skip limit.
So this is how many skips can occur within this step before
we would actually fail the job.
Because if every item within this step were
to throw that exception,
there's probably something a little bit more
critical going on, and we wouldn't want to fail.
So let's go ahead and add a skip limit of five.
And then we're going to add one more thing here,
we're able to add a listener.
And in this case, it's going to be a skip listener.
So I'm going to go ahead and specify that we would like
to register a listener using the listener method.
And then I'm going to create a new class
of type custom skip listener.
So I'm just creating the stub for that constructor,
and then we can use Ctrl+1 to create the class.
And then within the new class dialogue,
we're going to go ahead and specify
that this class is going to use the skip listener interface.
So here we can see that interface.
And this interface does except two generics.
So the first generic is going to be the type of the input,
and it's going to be order.
And then for the second generic,
we're going to specify that it is a tracked order.
So let's go ahead and we'll hit finish
to create our skip listener.
You'll see several methods on this interface.
The one we're interested in is the onSkipInProcess
and what we're going to do is add a little bit
of console output here.
So I'm just going to write to the console,
and I'll say skipping processing of item with ID.
And then we'll just print the ID of the item,
and here we can get the order item ID.
And we'll go ahead and save that.
So we have this output within our skip listener,
that's going to give us some insights into what's going on.
And then within our Tracked Order Item Processor,
we're also sending a little bit more console output out
as well, so we can see what item we're processing.
Now you'll notice we've configured the volatility
to roughly 30% of the time skip.
This will most likely result in a failure of the job
because we'll throw more than five most likely.
So let's navigate over to our console,
and then we're going to go ahead and kick off our job.
So here, you'll see the job will build
and then begin to execute.
And we should see some output regarding those skips.
There we go.
And you can see that we did fail.
And if we take a look at the console output,
within the stack trace, you're going to see
that we had a skip limit exceeded exception.
And we did hit that cap on five skips.
So let's go back to the job,
and within the Tracked Order Item Processor,
I'm going to tone this way down to just 1%.
Actually, let's set it to three.
And then we'll save that and now I'm going to go back,
clear the console and rerun the job.
Hopefully, we won't hit our skip limit this time,
and we'll see the job successfully execute, ignoring
those exceptions that are thrown.
Okay, so there if we look, you can see
we did have two skips occur, we didn't hit our skip limit.
So the Job did complete successfully.
So that's a look at one of the fault tolerant strategies
that Spring Batch provides, the skip.
There's others that we'll take a look at, in order
to make our batch jobs more resilient.